# List of breaking changes for migration from indy-node 1.3 to 1.4

-**Another format of REPLY for "WRITE" transactions**. New REPLY format you can see in:
 [REPLY for "WRITE" txns](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-node/blob/master/docs/source/requests.md#reply-structure-for-write-requests).
 The main goal for this changes is to divide data and metadata.

-**Change key of ReqIdrToTxn stores**.   For now, ReqIdrToTxn store request from client as a map of:
 (digest) -> (ledger_id<some_delimiter>txn seq_no). Digest is a sha256 hash of (reqId, DID, operation). 
 Also, digest was moved to transaction metadata section.
 
-**Added tag for CLAIM_DEF**. 'TAG' is a part of key for state tree. If this field exists in incoming transaction, then it will be used. If not, then default will be used.  
Full CLAIM_DEF format description can be found in [CLAIM_DEF txn format](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-node/blob/master/docs/source/transactions.md#claim_def) and [CLAIM_DEF request format](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-node/blob/master/docs/source/requests.md#claim_def)
All of other request specifications are in: [Request](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-node/blob/master/docs/source/requests.md)

-**Migration fom levelDB to RocksDB**. Rocksdb has a native 'seek' methods, more flexible, has snapshots support and works well on Windows.
For now, all of internal node's storage use this db as a default key-value storages.  

Migration scripts, which would be called automatically during pool upgrade procedure (while sending POOL_UPGRADE transaction):

 - **Change REPLY format for WRITE transactions and using digest as a key**:
    [1_3_428_to_1_3_429.py](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-node/blob/master/data/migrations/deb/1_3_428_to_1_3_429.py)


 - **From levelDb to Rocksdb**: 
    [1_3_396_to_1_3_397.py](https://github.com/hyperledger/indy-node/blob/master/data/migrations/deb/1_3_396_to_1_3_397.py)
    
##### Significant notes about upgrade steps:

 - Please mention that Pool upgrade should be performed simultaneously for all nodes due to txn format changes.

 - All indy-cli pools should be recreated with actual genesis files.

#### CLI Upgrading:

**Old CLI (`indy`):**

upgrade from 1.3 to 1.4 version
delete `~.ind-cli/networks/&lt;network_name&gt;/data` folder
replace both old genesis files by new ones (from 1.4 node or from sovrin repo)

**New CLI (`indy-cli`):**

upgrade from 1.4 to 1.5 version
recreate indy-cli pool using 1.4 pool genesis file (from 1.4 node or from sovrin repo)

